# Should any form of censorship over artistic expression be completely done away?

Censorship and artistic expressions have fought a battle for ages. Many societies have been very ambivalent in their approach towards this. For instance, the United States ensures Artistic Freedom via the First Amendment adopted in 1791 but then passed the Comstock Law in 1873 and then the Communications Decency Act in 1996 to enforce some censorship. This shows that the need for Censorship is felt in all societies irrespective of the guarantees they make, but why so? Censorship does not mean always means a draconic ruler who suppresses everything which displeases him rather, a normal functioning society can also work with minimal Censorship over some harmful content for some audience. 

Consequently, this leads to a huge ethical dilemma: judging whether some content should be censored or not? People have biases, they have their own beliefs and even their obligations based on the choices which they made. So, if we were to censor everything that might offend someone, we would end up in a society with no form of art. Let’s have a look at one of the most controversial subjects right now that is Comedy. Several Stand Up Comedians have gone to jail over issues ranging from supposedly people overhearing him reciting offensive jokes to making jokes on a cricketer in India. However, was this justified? In society, humor is a huge stress buster, and Censorship over humor itself is inherently wrong since it would be taking away a form of expression guaranteed in the constitution. There is also a saying among Comics which says a good joke should have half of the audience laughing and half mortified. This is because a good joke often comes at the cost of making fun of something or someone which in an ideal society would be equally liked and hated by the audience.

However, we need to look at the other side of the coin. The side used to justify Censorship and find the flaws in their reasoning. The primary argument raised by the opposition is that we don’t live in a utopian society. Humans do not function on their own free will no matter how much they try, rather they are hugely influenced by people they follow. These people could be anyone ranging from politicians to religious leaders to even one’s mentors. So, if we go by the idea of utilitarianism, Censorship would remove the displeasure faced by half the audience, but this is a flawed argument because when talking about removing displeasure, they conveniently skip over the newly generated displeasure in the society on the curbing of expression and secondly the theory of utilitarianism is in itself not a perfect one so trying to model a society according to a theory full of flaws isn’t a good idea. Therefore, extreme Censorship at least is out of the picture.

Now looking back at the idea of soft Censorship. We’ve seen all around us people using their voice in the name of artistic expression to raise issues of prime importance. Censorship will reduce the impact this has, which is a direct violation of the basic tenants of democracy. Be it the Black Lives Matter Movement in the United States or the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in India, protestors used caricatures, songs, and social presence to further their cause which is an essential feature of democracy. People have the freedom to share their ideas without restriction, but when we look at China, where the Tiananmen Square Massacre happened, it has been erased from all Chinese platforms. This act is a form of extreme Censorship, which has consequently created a society where people are afraid to express themselves. Several TV shows and movies received hate in India, be it the Movie Padmavat or the TV Show Taarak Mehta ka Oolta Chashma. When they made a small claim about the national language or a fake historical narrative, vigilantes swarmed their houses, demanding an apology. Enforcing umbrella-like censorship laws would further empower these vigilantes and justify their actions, creating an unsafe environment for artists and snatch their livelihoods.

However, all this is needless to say, some censorship is essential depending on the audience. An 18+ Rated Deadpool movie is not suited for a 10-year-old kid even though he might be a huge Deadpool fan due to the explicit language. This form of Censorship safeguards kids from ill exposure and going down a rabbit hole of explicit content.
To sum up, Censorship in the form we see around us is not ideal. It is a direct attack on democratic principles. However, Censorship in some minimal form remains necessary due to its power to protect some vulnerable sections. Hence there is strong prima facie evidence that Censorship on creating art should be done away with, but some censorship on presenting art needs to be kept depending on the target audience.
