# Collaborative Learning Platforms such as Wikipedia are The Future of Education

The author begins by informing the readers about the ban on Wikipedia by the history department at Middlebury College. The author had written to the college’s president to point out his concerns as this could set a bad precedent and that banning has had evil connotations. He got to know how the media had exaggerated the issue. The ban was merely on citing Wikipedia, and this was similar to the ban on Encyclopaedia Britannica. Still a colleague who might’ve been a Luddite even supported the ban since Wikipedia articles were error-prone but failed to realize even the Encyclopaedias have errors and Wikipedia errors can be fixed quickly like the one cited by the department. This brings up a discussion about platforms such as Wikipedia.

Educator goals and Wikipedia’s working methodology seem to be aligned since anyone can put forward their interpretation, and have a healthy discussion over it. Incorporating Wikipedia into mainstream education is necessary, which will enhance the student’s exposure to collaborative working. Even a simple task of posting articles that they’ve written can make a huge difference and benefit the readers who pursue knowledge.

Most of the students who recently joined the institute were born in 1988. They witnessed technology develop alongside them and developed the skill of critical analysis. This is also reflected in the fact that a majority of the young faculty members and other departments oppose the ban. The author interacted with a family and noticed that the kid had memorized around 500 Pokémon while his father used to memorize dinosaur names. The author believed that the kid was no different, and being born in this age, he got a chance to hone his creative skills.

The author even shares his personal experience of spending vast amounts of time reading through Wikipedia. He witnessed the evolution of articles as he shared an example of a poorly written article having significantly improved when he visited it the next time. He even bought many books to read up and found articles online owing to the knowledge he gained by discussing on forums. This reiterates the point that there is no need to ban such a resource, which is compared to being as revolutionary as the Oxford English Dictionary. The decisions taken by the department have fuelled a critical discussion on how knowledge isn’t just information or opinions. One way to examine this would be to read the discussion section on Wikipedia. Social collaboration and learning websites are now of the essence and can lead to better education for the masses hence banning them does more harm than good.

The title aptly voices the concerns, which is understanding the importance of collaborative learning platforms. People oppose changes that involve technology, but they are essential to enhance our knowledge. Wikipedia is a prime example. Anyone can make changes and share their views. I think this makes it an ideal place for people to learn and share knowledge. Banning such resources is only detrimental for society and only sets us back. Hence, I believe such platforms are the future of education.
